# CodeGuide
THE SECRET GUIDE FOR A SUCCESSFUL IT DEVELOPER

The essential purpose of Valatron’s guide is to help an IT developer succeedin the job interview or  succeed  to improve  their  skills  in  the  actual  job  position.  This  guidefocusesmainlyon developers,but it also may be useful for testers, architects, and IT team leaders.There area lot of perfect sources of job interview questions, advice, and magic tricks. But even if you succeed at a job interviewitis hard to continue to be better and better without the help of  an  experienced  mentor  or  quality  sources.  Sometimes  web  sources  included  too  much information,  sometimes  it  is  too  poor.  The  key  to  success  is  a  perfect  balance  between important and useless information. Many people are lost in this information flooding. Do not worry, ahelping hand is now available.In each case, the major impact on career success is a level of your knowledge onboth-hard and soft skills. The objective scale hasnot existed yet. The author and coauthors bring this scale toyoufor your benefit. This scale is simply called,TheValatron Guide. Valatron  Guide  composes  of  areas,  which  focus  and  each  part  of  IT  life  e.g.:  language, databases, protocols... Each area contains a list of topics, which should help you to orientate it.  Also,  it  could  be  yourprofessional  mirror, as  to how  deep  you  are  in  the  discipline.  The technology  world  is  widely  changing  and  for this reason,TheValatron  Guide  is  published annually.

Seniority   level
It is traditionally said there are three levels of seniority –junior, medior,senior. Honestly, there could  be  a  very  senior  topic,  which  will  be  easy  for  you,  and  a  junior  topic,  which  you have never heard of. Let’s say, each topic could be discussed at the junior, medior, or senior level. The further you are able to discuss the topic, the more senior you are.The most important information about seniority is, it is composed of knowledge in many areas. You can be strong in one area and very poor in others. The main goal is to improve yourself in each area that is connected to your job position. This improvement is a never-ending process.The author and coauthors do not want to explain each topic. On the contrary, we would like to raise  questions. Questions,need  to  be  answeredhelpyouto  reflect  on your strengthsand weaknesses. All suitable and useful resources can be found below each topic.

Ideal senior developer
Let’s look at an example of an ideal senior developer. In our opinion,  the  main  area  here  is logically programming -a hard skill. It is more important to understand general principles than specific language. Each language is based on general principles. Surprisingly, the second area aresoft skills. Soft skills likeemotional stability, grit, beingpart of the team, and,for example, the ability to effectively learn. Next in order is a focus on the main language of the developer. And  we  cannot  forget the testing  area,  understanding  how  to  unit  test  code  and  produce testable code in general. So,finally, beinga good programmer also means havinga good sense of humor, which is described in the last area calledfun(-: